hello and welcome back to the channel in
the last Edition we we did review GIC
Ray um which was into Insurance sector
Prim into reinsurance sector and how we
saw that the stock had significant uh
potential of being undervalued um the
stock was trading at uh um at a at a
market cap of close to
70,000 um but had a had a asset under
management of uh 94,000 CR it was
generating an investment income of
11,000 CR and it had cash on book of
25,000 CR with a PE multiple of close to
nine um with a dividend yield of 2 and a
half% so we did see um that uh the
business and how it had degr and uh how
from 50,000 CR a couple of years back on
which they were generating a loss of
close to 250 CR they turned around the
business and they were prudent in the
underwriting and the ction that they
were doing and because of which they
were able to turn it around from uh they
degw um they they went from 50,000 to
37,000 CR on that 37,000 CR they were
able to generate a profit of close to
6,000 6 and a half th000 CR so so they
did that and they did all of those
things and insurance has been in the
news lately uh it has been in the news
because of the new U proposals of
limiting Bank Assurance to uh 50% so
Bank Assurance is nothing but the
banking Channel and a lot of the life
insurance companies like HDFC and SBI
they have an advantage over uh some of
the smaller incumbents who who do not
have uh such a vast Banker channel uh
but really they wanted to limit the
banker channel to avoid Miss selling
that was the primary purpose because
through the banker channels a lot of
Miss selling was happening in terms of
people being sold ulips and people being
sold guaranteed plans with uh minimal
returns and uh not so not the right fit
for the right people uh kind of thing in
this addition we'll be looking at icsa
Lombard we'll be looking at what the
valuations are where does the market cap
stand what are some of the things that
is doing the what are the numbers that
they are doing what is the portfolio mix
what is the Tam globally what is
happening in terms of um where um the
global insurance penetration is compared
to India and uh where does this company
go from here so so we'll be looking at
those things in in the first slide we'll
Dive Right In And in the first slide we
can see that there are The Pillars of
Strength which is listed in the halfe uh
2025 presentation of icsa Lombard and uh
what they are basically saying is that
they are a leading private sector
non-life insur in India since FY 2004
gdpi basis um gdpi is the is the premium
without the inward reinsurance so so
it's the pure premium that the business
has written and we can see that 16 years
the C so 16 years gdps cagr from 2008 to
2024 um has been for ICS Aloma 13.4% so
they have grown at a good clip um and
even at the larger base they are able to
grow at a much faster rate and uh they
have had a good growth and they have
been listed uh since 2016 or 17 we'll uh
check that when we go into the uh price
chart later on and we can see that the
the market share as a H1 2025 is close
to
99.4% so so obviously they're the
leading private sector long life insurer
and they have a market share of close to
10% which goes on to show that how
fragmented the market is in terms of how
many players are there in uh competing
against each other and uh because of
which pricing then becomes really
important pricing in terms of uh really
attracting customers because India is a
very price sensitive country and uh a
lot of times the details get overlooked
uh in terms of which which is a better
company in terms of claim settlement and
those kind of things anyone who wishes
to um take insurance uh they will look
at the price first so so these are some
of the things um in terms of its
leadership they have a comprehensive and
diverse product portfolio we'll be
discussing the product mix in one of the
latest slides uh they have close to 1ak
33,000 individual agents and they are
enhancing the penetration in Tire three
and tire four cities so so the kind of
business that icsl Lombard does um
anything under the sun which can be
insured um is insured by icsa Lombard so
they are they don't do life insurance uh
business um but they do have a health
insurance arm and they also do have uh
crop and motor motor being one of the
largest areas that they write business
in um and and what they're really doing
is they're also
combining um artificial intelligence
machine learning and iot uh initially
the Fairfax had an investment in icsa
Lombard so Fairfax is a Canadian company
owned by Prem Wata who's also known as
the Warren Buffett of Canada and uh who
also has a majority stake in the
Bangalore airport so he also increased
his stake recently so he was into this
business and uh later on when digit
Insurance did come into the picture he
sold off his Holdings because um no two
investor can hold a significant holding
in two businesses separately two in
general insurance businesses separately
so they decided to exit from icsa
Lombard and get invested into digit
Insurance um but icsl Lombard has gone
on to also acquire BH EXA General
Insurance um and we'll look at those
timelines um in a more detailed fashion
in the latest
slides so in terms of risk management uh
they are growing they have a what they
say is they have a profitable growth uh
they're using risk selection and data
analytics they have a robust acturial
function um they maintain robust
reserves they are one of the few
companies uh who have been um mentioning
their reserving triangles into the into
the public
disclosures um and uh what they also say
is that a prudent Investment Management
so most of the Investments that they
have will be in bonds 88% would be in
bonds and close to
12% is in the equity Market on a
weighted average basis they are
generating close to
7.98% return on their
Investments um yeah in terms of the
solvency ratio now what do we mean by
solvency ratio solvency ratio is nothing
but the available solvency margin by the
divided by the required solvency margin
uh in a way this is used to gauge
whether the insurer is able to uh pay
off his long-term liabilities or to meet
its liabilities in the short term mostly
in The General Insurance field and uh
the minimum requirement set by the
regulator irda is 1 1.5 which is
150% uh and the solvency ratio that came
in p a Lombard is was at 265 per as at
September 30 2024 so uh these are some
of the things which uh investors or the
analysts who are analyzing the stock do
look at um we'll also look at some of
the other things that they are looking
at so now here when we see the the key
highlights in terms of the business
return so this gross return premium will
include um reinsurance Inver premium so
what you can see is the gap the Gap is
nothing but this number is the pure
premium that they writing um except for
the reinsurance Inver
premium um and here these numbers are
represented in billions so if you
multiply it by 100 we'll get in cores so
here it's nothing but in fi 2023 they
wrote 21 ,000 CR worth of business um
and in fi 2024 they wrote a
24776 CR worth of business so uh here
they're growing at a in in terms of gdpi
they're growing at a rate of close to 17
to 17.8 to
18% um and a combined operating ratio uh
they have a combined operating ratio of
104.5 103.3 per. uh combin operating
ratio is nothing but when when the
incurred losses are combined with the
EXP expenses the underwriting expenses
and divided by the earned premium that
would be the combined operating ratio
and what they're also mentioning that
the combined operating ratio here is
excluding cat losses so cat losses is
nothing but catastrophic losses or the
large losses uh to the tune of 94 CR in
half year of 2025 so there were some cat
events because of because of which 94
car was um Lombard was impacted by 94
Kors and uh
this would be on the gross basis they
would also have some reinsurance to to
take care of the cat losses um but these
are not represented in the calculation
of the combined ratio so in terms of
profit after tax they're generating a
profit after tax of close to 1919 CR um
on a business of uh
24776 CR um and a lot of it because the
combine operating ratio is already
higher than 100 so um this this would
depend on the investment income that
they're generating and in in terms of
the investment income that they're
generating is causing it to be um a
positive profit after
tax so here we see the profit after tax
for half year of 2024 was at 968 CR and
here it's 1274 CR um and uh the full
year F 2024 was sitting at 1919 CR and
the solvency ratio has consistently been
higher than 2.5 which is
250% and all the regulator has a target
of 150% but companies General insurance
companies within their internal targets
have a ratio which is much higher than
the regulatory requirement usually would
be in the range of 1.7 to 1.8 but all uh
all the insurance General insurance
companies would have the own internal
rate of return own solvency ratio
internal
targets um depending on the risk
appetite and the risk that they writing
and and the risk threshold that they
have within their risk management
committee so here we can also see that
from f23 to f24 the basic earning per
share um has also risen from
2 1% of in fi 2023 so what we see is we
see a degrowth by 2% um in the motor
business from 2023 compared to 2024 and
we see a rise in health business from
27% to
29% um fire business has remained
stagnant 15 to 14% And Marine
3% uh crop insurance is for close to 4%
and others uh would be uh also stagnant
so the big shift I think that we have
seen is um in the health where it's
moved up and in the motor it's moved
down by 2% but yeah these
fluctuations um can be uh driven by
strategic thoughts but it can also be
driven by cyclicality and the business
uh the way the business is working so
obviously after covid a lot of people
have become aware of about the
importance of health insurance um and
that also would contribute to the rising
share
of Health Insurance within the product
mix of icsa
Lombard so here we see the comprehensive
product portfolio of motor um so so in
terms of the motor gdpi makes private
car um two whe and Commercial Vehicle we
see that private cars holds the highest
segment uh 50 close to 50% two wheeler
is 25% and commercial vehicle is 21.6
and 21.8% there was a change in close to
I think 2018 B where earlier what used
to happen was um the insurance used to
be whenever you would buy a new car it
would be written for one year but the
regulator did come up with something
like a three-year policy so earlier it
was that you could take threeyear uh OD
and onee TP but uh it came out with
long-term uh so you you can buy three
threeyear policies all together and
because of which uh there has been a
growth in terms of U how because what
would happen is people would buy cars
and they would forget to renew their
insurance and uh that would put them
under a lot of risk because motor TP is
mandatory in India um and the regulator
did come up with this then um the the
insurance that they did buy at The
Upfront would would sustain them for
three years so so that would have
increased the volume numbers for the
motor
insurance so 72.8% of agency and direct
claim service through PPN um so that is
something that they have and here if you
see the loss ratio so in terms of the
loss ratio we see that in fi 2023 they
had a loss ratio of
72.4% and in fi 2024 they have a loss
ratio of
65.2% um now all this will really depend
on the risk selection that you make so
so for example if if icsl Lombard is
able to get the business of school buses
school buses are considered a good risk
to ride because they move from point A
to point B and then for the whole day
they are they are waiting for the kids
to come back and jump onto the school
buses so the loss ratios would be lower
for school buses um and something like a
if you would write insurance for a
company like Porter which are Tata a uh
again point A to point B regulated and
uh they have monitoring from the from
the startup that they are and they would
have uh speed limit on their tataa ases
so so if those businesses do increase
Within the portfolio then the loss
ratios would be tending towards uh
downwards but there's a huge fight for
those uh uh businesses within the sector
so the companies which are able to ride
those businesses would end up with a
lower loss ratio both in terms of motor
OD and motor TP and that that should do
the case uh a lot of good in terms
of um maintaining a positive loss ratio
so here we see that they wrote close to
4,894 CR worth of um TP gdpi and TP gdpi
is higher than the OD gdpi OD gdpi they
roote close to 4,740 CR and uh in FY
2023 it was 44 31 so these numbers are
represented billion so if you multiply
by 100 you will get it into cores so
4,431 CR for for 2023 and 4,151 CR for
um for uh 44 4431 for TP gdpi and 4151
for OD GD for
f223 so here we see the heal travel and
Pa gdpi mix um even in heal travel and
Pa we see that individual is
contributing close to 16% uh group
others is contributing 28 to 24.7 and
group employer group employer employee
is contributing close to 55.3% to 57.5%
this group employe employee usually is
the one where and group other so group
policies are generally the ones which
are on the higher loss
ratio um but but ICS Lombard is able to
maintain uh a loss ratio which is uh
lower than 100% without expenses so 70
close to 77.3 78.9 and 80.6 and
83.2 um and it's been in the range of
79% in f223 and uh and f24 around
78.9% but it has risen it has risen in
the half year it had has risen to 83.2%
in H1 of 2025 so health insurance uh
really the first year that you do write
it it comes with its pre-existing
diseases um so they will sorry the first
year that you do write it it comes with
its waiting period once you do hit that
waiting period so till the time the
waiting period is hit the loss ratios
will be lower and as soon as you hit the
waiting period the loss ratios tend to
go higher um that is the general Trend
that there is but now health insurance
companies have also become very smart in
terms of um trying to evaluate the
claims that they can reject uh they
would try and see what are some of the
disclosures that has not been made by
the um not been made by the policy
holder and try and reject as many claims
as they can uh because of which they can
maintain a loss ratio which is to their
liking but yeah health insurance one of
the most um unpopular product in in the
policy holders because policy holders
have a bunch of claims that get rejected
um because there's a lot of fine print
within the policy that there is um if
you if you're getting a heart surgery
done then um there is some report
sometime in 2018 where you hadn't
disclosed something and if if
the claim people do come to know about
it or people who are registering the
claim do come to know about it they can
reject it on the basis of uh
non-disclosure um and then that claim
gets directly
rejected so health insurance also the
business as such will continue to grow
because as as we know that India is a
young country in terms of the median age
being uh most of the population median
age being less than 30 so a lot of
people entering into the workforce and
medical inflation is separate from the
inflation that uh that is there on the
consumer CPI index um so medical
inflation would be anywhere in the range
of in the high 10 10 to between 10 to 15
% um and it would fluctuate between that
so so um also the hospitals are now
cognizant of the fact that a patient
which is coming in is backed by health
insurance so hence that also drives the
the health costs
higher so here we see the comprehensive
products portfolio of PNC so the sum of
the PNC being the Property and Casualty
um here we see fire engineering Marine
cargo and liability uh so so we see that
all of them have been pretty much stable
ex a marine cargo which has gone higher
from 19.5 to
21.5% uh Property and Casualty the loss
ratios if you see here um have remained
in the range of 59 so 59.7% for fi23 and
it's been higher fi 2024 has been in the
range of 68.6%
um so it's gone Higher by uh almost
10% and they are writing a business of
close to um 5,973 in f23 whereas it has
increased to 6,851 CR in FY
2024 and in the half year of 2025 as
well it's in the range of
68% uh which is in line with f
2024 so crop is also something that IO
Lombard writes um drob contributes as we
saw close to 3 to 4% of their total
gdpi and uh these are some of so they
have a conservative reserving policy um
that means that they reserve for more
than what they anticipate um and then
back it up and keep it aside to meet
future uh obligations future payout
obligations so here we see that crop
insurance they're writing in the range
of uh 1,175 CR in fi 2024 um and the
loss ratio was 88.4% and in fi 2023
80.1% loss ratio and these would all
depend on where you're writing a crop
insurance whether you're writing close
to the coast eastern coast obviously are
very susceptible to Cyclones um and
because of which if the Cyclones do hit
then there may be a lot of payout that
needs to be made but the claim
assessment right now is also very um not
that advanced uh it is done on a sample
basis
and there is a lot of U chances of it
not being appropriately paid out so it
may be the case that the sample that is
selected is much better than the the
population of the crop uh um insurance
that needs to be paid out and hence the
payout can be lower so all those things
are there there are drawbacks and uh I'm
sure I think the government would be
thinking of deploying Ai and drones and
those kind of things to uh enable proper
claim assessment for crop insurance
so here we see in terms of the risk
management
um what they are doing so this risk
management divided into four quadrants
uh reinsurance is a big part now
reinsurance is um so so I say so Lombard
has a net retention of close to 70% now
what do we mean by net retention is that
if you're are writing 100 rupees worth
of Premium then uh it is seeding 30 30
rupees uh to reinsurers and uh it is a
strategic move in terms of um enabling
uh stability in the profitability um
they want to see the risk which they
feel a high probability of um losses or
or portfolios which have a which have a
threshold uh which have a loss threshold
larger than what it can carry so hence
it goes out and seeds it so for seeding
it it needs to pay uh reinsurance a
company's um premium and then
accordingly any Cat event that does come
in then they are protected on the basis
of the reinsurance that they write so
there are various types of reinsurance
that they write and uh so we had
discussed GIC rain in my last assessment
and I'll be attaching the link to GIC
here as well um so we can go and check
that
out so in terms of underwriting um
they're using predictive ultimate loss
model to improve risk selection uh they
have Diversified their exposure across
geographies and products and
historically they have a lower
proportion of losses from catastrophic
events than overall market
share uh in terms of the Investments
that they have the high they have a high
proportion of debt portfolio in
Sovereign or AAA rated Securities that
is 88.5% of the Investment Portfolio um
all the debt Securities are rated double
A and above and zero instance of default
on the I on the icsl lombar jport folio
that they mean to say that in the ilfs
Fiasco that did occur um they were not
so so they were not involved and they
did not have to write off that
asset so yeah that is on the investment
part on the reserving part their ibnr
utilization is improving um ibnr is
nothing but the incurred but not
reported so those are the claims that
are set aside to meet future claim
liabilities and uh um so what they're
saying is the reserve that they set out
is robust and they have done a lot of
disclosure in terms of reserving
triangles uh basically which means to
say that if they had kept 100 rupees on
expected claims whether those 100 rupees
uh went on to increase or decrease over
the period um for the same uh accident
year and hence uh what they believe is
that their their levels are sufficient
to meet all future
liabilities um and and this have also
put it into the uh into the investor
presentation which we'll have a look at
in the later
section so in terms of the financial
performance what we see is that the core
uh pretty much is higher uh higher than
100% 104.5 and 103.3 and then they have
also made a disclosure that it doesn't
include the 94 CR worth of H1
1225 um cat claims that did come which
was 84 CR 84 CR in H1 of
2024 uh and hence these These are
without without those um
cats and H1 of 2025 they've had 13.2%
combined operating
ratio so here we see the profit before
tax so the profit before tax has grown
by 21% uh from f223 to f224 so they were
doing a profit uh before tax sorry of
2,113 CR and which is now at 2550
um and the profit after tax has grown by
almost 11% from
17297 1729 CR to 1919
CR so this is on the investment
performance so what we see is that they
had uh they had a realized return of
7.5% in F 23 and uh as at F 2024 they
had a realized return of
7.98% given that 88% of the portfolio is
in bonds um so the weighted average of
the weighted average impact of equity
which is contributing 12% is lower but
that that is the reason why it's being
pushed up by a by a percentage point
because the GC rates are usually in the
range of 7% but the realized return is
in the range of
7.98% so in terms of the investment book
that they have um they have a 49,000 CR
worth of investment book um so these
investment books so they have investment
book of 49,000 CR whereas the market cap
of the compan is close to 70,000 CR um
and they had an investment book of
431 four
43180 in F of
203 so in terms of the mix of the
investment book that they have 40% of
their debt book is in
GC um 43.2% % is Corporate bonds and
12.2% is in uh Equity 12.2% is in equity
including Equity
ETF they have unrealized gain of 255 CR
as on September 30
2024 um and the unrealized gain Equity
portfolio is at 1664 CR whereas in the
uh other than Equity portfolio it's at
841 CR
we'll skip the ESG part for now we'll
just look at the industry overview so
here we can see U The Tam the non-life
insurance Market Tam so uh the world
this is the world opportunity in terms
of um so the world is standing at close
to
4,297 um so 4ak 29,7 18 CR worth of US
dollar worth of Premium uh which within
India is sitting at close to
3,577 US dollar worth of um premium
within India and emerging Asia is close
to
4.11 so beyond Asia and India there's a
lot of insurance premium that there is
and we are writing a fraction of what
what is there available out there in the
world so here um what we can see is this
see the significant under penetration
this is nothing but the premium as a
percentage of GD GP and that multiple
Forest is at 1 whereas for China is at
1.8 uh we have a per capita income of
close to $2,800 us per person uh per
anom and uh for China it is at 1.8 but
their but their per capita income is at
close to 12,000 U US Dollars and USA is
close to 60 $60,000 plus and they have a
um percentage premium as a percentage
GDP of 9. .
3% followed by South Korea 6% and UK 2.6
these are considered some of the more
developed markets in terms of the
insurance
penetration and here we see the premium
per capita so India is lagging behind in
terms of just $25 us per capita of
Premium whereas in uh USA
754 so is the per capita pre per capita
for the UK for the 66 million population
that they have their average is close to
CR so this is the growth of the um The
General insurance industry uh as we see
it uh the industry cagr has been in the
range of
12.8% um and uh from 2001 to 2008 ICS
Lombard cagr was at 73.3% and from 2003
to 2003 onwards the C growth has been in
the range of
17.8% yeah so I think uh this we are
done with this part the investor
presentation part we'll quickly jump
into uh the numbers as well so here we
can see that the market cap for Lombard
is sitting at close to 95,000 CR and we
had discussed that the um investment
book is sitting at close to 45,000 CR uh
the stock is trading at a multi price 20
multiple of 43 Book value is 275 whereas
the current running price is
1933 um dividend yield is close to 0.31%
they're generating a profit after tax of
close to 2,225
CR and
uh yeah so Enterprise Value is close to
95576 CR um cash equivalent they have
CED within the cash
equivalents so here we see the price
action in terms of so it it did go into
IPO in September of 2017 at a price of
680 rupees and currently is trading at
at 1900 the price of 19900 so that's it
from my side uh on this Edition thank
you thank you so much